# MATLAB_Cosmology_Exercises
These directories include MATLAB homework exercises and related Matlab programs associated with a graduate Cosmology course taught by Professor Andreas Albrecht at UC Davis.

As a graduate student at UC Davis, I sat in on a graduate cosmology course taught by
my PhD supervisor in which I wrote matlab code and generated matlab plots as a part of
several homework assignments. Below I will give the name of several of the matlab code files which can be found
in the various subdirectories of this repository, along with a brief description of what the code does. Further details are given in comment lines in the code itself. I also describe any corresponding plots that were generated by the code.

(a) hw1prob1.m -- In this homework exercise I learned how to utilize some basic matlab syntax and features relevant to the use of functions, data structures, and plotting. The data structure "par" contains all the fixed parameters. I also utilized the matlab function subroutines f1.m, f2.m, and fSin.m (all also attached) to define vectors of coordinates. Further details can be found in comment lines in the code. The corresponding plot that was generated is in the file "hw1_prob1.eps" and is also attached.

(b) hw1prob2.m and hw1prob2_loglog.m -- Similar to (a) above except a log-log plot was also
generated and the function subroutines g2.m, g3.m, and g4.m were also used. See comment lines in the code for further details. The corresponding plots that were generated are in the files:
hw1_prob2_linear.pdf, hw1.2_linear.eps, hw1_prob2_linear.eps, hw1_prob2_linear_axes.eps,
and hw1_prob2_log_log.eps.

(c) hw2prob2.m -- In this homework exercise I used matlab to generate log-log plots of the cosmological mass density, radiation density, and cosmological constant density as a function of scale factor (a) given various (constant) parameters. Also, the function subroutines rhol.m, rhom.m, and rhor.m were used.  The corresponding labeled plot is in the file hw2_prob2.eps

(d) hw2prob4.m -- Similar to (d) except semi-log plots were generated and some slightly different
cosmological density parameters were plotted, with the use of the function subroutines omegal.m,
omegar.m, and omegam.m. The corresponding plot was generated in the file "hw2_prob4.eps".

(e) hw3prob4.m and hw3prob5.m -- For these homework problems I generated log-log plots
similar to those discussed in (d) but with different parameterizations and normalizations for
the cosmological densities as a function of scale factor a. See all of the comment lines in these
two matlab programs for all of the details. The different parameterizations for the different 
cosmological densities are implemented via the following function subroutines: 

lomegakminus.m
lomegakplus.m
lomegal.m
lomegam.m
lomegar.m
rhol100.m
rhom100.m
rhor100.m

A sample generated plot is in the file hw3.5.eps.
